[docs-only] Add tus upload documentation (#7500)
owncloud/ocis: docs/apis/http/tus_upload.md

---

> title: "TUS upload"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "tus Upload"
```

Reviewer: This is how tus is spelled on https://tus.io/ so I guess, we should use that spelling, even at the beginning of sentences.

date: 2023-10-10T00:00:00+00:00
weight: 21
geekdocRepo: https://github.com/owncloud/ocis
geekdocEditPath: edit/master/docs/apis/http
geekdocFilePath: tus_upload.md
geekdocCollapseSection: true
---

> Infinite Scale supports TUS upload protocols.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Infinite Scale supports tus upload protocols.
```

> Tus is a robust, modular, and open protocol designed to resume large file uploads reliably over HTTP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tus is a robust, modular, and open protocol designed to resume large file uploads reliably over HTTP.
```

In situations where file uploads might be interrupted due to network issues, browser crashes, or other unforeseen interruptions,

> Tus ensures that uploads can be resumed from the point of failure without losing data. Read details about [TUS protocol](https://tus.io/protocols/resumable-upload)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tus ensures that uploads can be resumed from the point of failure without losing data. Read details about [TUS protocol](https://tus.io/protocols/resumable-upload)
```

> ## Create an upload URL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Create an Upload URL
```

> The Client must send a POST request against a known upload creation URL to request a new upload resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The client must send a POST request against a known upload creation URL to request a new upload resource.
```

> You need to provide filename in base64 encoded format

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need to provide a file name in base64-encoded format
```

< Content-Security-Policy: default-src 'none';
< Date: Mon, 16 Oct 2023 08:49:39 GMT
< Location: https://localhost:9200/data/eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJyZXZhIiwiZXhwIjoxNjk3NTMyNTc5LCJpYXQiOjE2OTc0NDYxNzksInRhcmdldCI6Imh0dHA6Ly9sb2NhbGhvc3Q6OTE1OC9kYXRhL3R1cy8zYTU3ZWZlMS04MzE0LTQ4MGEtOWY5Ny04N2Q1YzBjYTJhMTgifQ.FbrlY7mdOfsbFgMrP8OtcHlCEq72a2ZVnPD2iBo9MfM
< Tus-Extension: creation,creation-with-upload,checksum,expiration
< Tus-Resumable: 1.0.0
< Vary: Origin
< X-Content-Type-Options: nosniff
< X-Download-Options: noopen
< X-Frame-Options: SAMEORIGIN
< X-Permitted-Cross-Domain-Policies: none
< X-Request-Id: amrita-OptiPlex-3090/E4nBJhXvpk-002664
< X-Robots-Tag: none
< X-Xss-Protection: 1; mode=block
<
* Connection #0 to host localhost left intact

```
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

The server will return a temporary upload URL in the location header of the response:
```bash
< Location: https://localhost:9200/data/eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJyZXZhIiwiZXhwIjoxNjk3NTMyNTc5LCJpYXQiOjE2OTc0NDYxNzksInRhcmdldCI6Imh0dHA6Ly9sb2NhbGhvc3Q6OTE1OC9kYXRhL3R1cy8zYTU3ZWZlMS04MzE0LTQ4MGEtOWY5Ny04N2Q1YzBjYTJhMTgifQ.FbrlY7mdOfsbFgMrP8OtcHlCEq72a2ZVnPD2iBo9MfM
```

> ## Upload a file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Upload a File
```

> Once a temporary upload URL has been created, a client can send a PATCH request to upload a file. The file content should be send in the body of the request:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once a temporary upload URL has been created, a client can send a PATCH request to upload a file. The file content should be sent in the body of the request:
```

---
title: "tus upload"
date: 2023-10-10T00:00:00+00:00
weight: 21
geekdocRepo: https://github.com/owncloud/ocis
geekdocEditPath: edit/master/docs/apis/http
geekdocFilePath: tus_upload.md
geekdocCollapseSection: true
---

> Infinite Scale supports [tus resumable-upload protocol](https://tus.io/protocols/resumable-upload).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
ownCloud Infinite Scale supports [tus resumable-upload protocol](https://tus.io/protocols/resumable-upload).
```

Reviewer: ownCloud should not be part of the product name, simply use Infinite Scale.

tus is a robust, modular, and open protocol designed to resume large file uploads reliably over HTTP.
In situations where file uploads might be interrupted due to network issues, browser crashes, or other unforeseen interruptions,
tus ensures that uploads can be resumed from the point of failure without losing data.

> 

Reviewer 2: please mention that this documentation shows some basic examples and that more details about the tus protocol can be found in their own docs

> # Upload in Chunks

Reviewer 3: please start with a level 2 heading, because the document title is already level 1.

### Create an Upload URL

> The client must send a POST request against a known upload creation URL to request a new upload resource.
> You need to provide filename in base64-encoded format.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The client must send a POST request against a known upload creation URL to request a new upload resource.
The filename has to be provided in base64-encoded format.
```

Example:
```bash

> 'tustest.txt' = 'dHVzdGVzdC50eHQ=' //encoded in base64 format

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# base64 encoded filename 'tustest.txt' is 'dHVzdGVzdC50eHQ='
echo -n 'tustest.txt' | base64
```

```
{{< tabs "create-upload-url" >}}
{{< tab "Request" >}}
```bash

> curl -ks -u admin:admin -XPOST https://ocis.test/remote.php/dav/spaces/8d72036d-14a5-490f-889e-414064156402$196ac304-7b88-44ce-a4db-c4becef0d2e0 \

Reviewer 2: let's not use basic auth, because the is disabled by default

-H "Tus-Resumable: 1.0.0" \
-H "Upload-Length: 10" \
-H "Upload-Metadata: filename dHVzdGVzdC50eHQ="
```
{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab "Response - 201 Created" >}}

> ```xmllint --format

Reviewer 2: why is this line here?

< HTTP/1.1 201 Created
< Access-Control-Allow-Headers: Tus-Resumable, Upload-Length, Upload-Metadata, If-Match
< Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *
< Access-Control-Expose-Headers: Tus-Resumable, Upload-Offset, Location
< Content-Length: 0
< Content-Security-Policy: default-src 'none';
< Date: Mon, 16 Oct 2023 08:49:39 GMT
< Location: https://ocis.test/data/eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJyZXZhIiwiZXhwIjoxNjk3NTMyNTc5LCJpYXQiOjE2OTc0NDYxNzksInRhcmdldCI6Imh0dHA6Ly9sb2NhbGhvc3Q6OTE1OC9kYXRhL3R1cy8zYTU3ZWZlMS04MzE0LTQ4MGEtOWY5Ny04N2Q1YzBjYTJhMTgifQ.FbrlY7mdOfsbFgMrP8OtcHlCEq72a2ZVnPD2iBo9MfM
< Tus-Extension: creation,creation-with-upload,checksum,expiration
< Tus-Resumable: 1.0.0
< Vary: Origin
< X-Content-Type-Options: nosniff
< X-Download-Options: noopen
< X-Frame-Options: SAMEORIGIN
< X-Permitted-Cross-Domain-Policies: none
< X-Request-Id: xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
< X-Robots-Tag: none
< X-Xss-Protection: 1; mode=block
<
* Connection #0 to host localhost left intact

```
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

The server will return a temporary upload URL in the location header of the response:

> ```bash

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
```

< Location: https://ocis.test/data/eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJyZXZhIiwiZXhwIjoxNjk3NTMyNTc5LCJpYXQiOjE2OTc0NDYxNzksInRhcmdldCI6Imh0dHA6Ly9sb2NhbGhvc3Q6OTE1OC9kYXRhL3R1cy8zYTU3ZWZlMS04MzE0LTQ4MGEtOWY5Ny04N2Q1YzBjYTJhMTgifQ.FbrlY7mdOfsbFgMrP8OtcHlCEq72a2ZVnPD2iBo9MfM
```

> ## Upload the first chunk

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Upload the First Chunk
```

Once a temporary upload URL has been created, a client can send a PATCH request to upload a file. The file content should be sent in the body of the request:

> {{< tabs "create-upload" >}}

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
{{< tabs "upload-the-first-chunk" >}}
```

{{< tab "Request" >}}
```bash
curl -ks -u admin:admin -XPATCH https://temporary-upload-url \
-H "Tus-Resumable: 1.0.0" \
-H "Upload-Offset: 0" \
-H "Content-Type: application/offset+octet-stream" -d "01234"
```
{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab "Response - 204 No Content" >}}
```xmllint --format
< HTTP/1.1 204 No Content
< Date: Tue, 17 Oct 2023 04:10:52 GMT
< Oc-Fileid: 8d72036d-14a5-490f-889e-414064156402$73bb5450-816b-4cae-90aa-1f96adc95bd4!84e319e4-de1d-4dd8-bbd0-e51d933cdbcd
< Tus-Resumable: 1.0.0
< Upload-Expires: 1697602157
< Upload-Offset: 5
< Vary: Origin
< X-Content-Type-Options: nosniff
< X-Request-Id: xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
<
* Connection #0 to host localhost left intact
```
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

> ### Upload the Second Chunk

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Upload Further Chunks
```

> After first chunk uploaded, second chunk can be uploaded with pointing `Upload-Offset` to exact location

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
After the first chunk is uploaded, second chunk can be uploaded by pointing `Upload-Offset` to exact position that was returned in the first response
```

> {{< tabs "create-upload" >}}

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
{{< tabs "upload-the-second-chunk" >}}
```

> After the first chunk is uploaded, second chunk can be uploaded by pointing `Upload-Offset` to exact position that was returned in the first response

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the first chunk is uploaded, the second chunk can be uploaded by pointing `Upload-Offset` to exact position that was returned in the first response
```

{{< tab "Request" >}}
```angular2html
curl -ks -u admin:admin -XPATCH https://temporary-upload-url \
-H "Tus-Resumable: 1.0.0" \
-H "Upload-Offset: 5" \
-H "Content-Type: application/offset+octet-stream" -d "56789"
```
{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab "Response - 204 No Content" >}}
```xmllint --format
< HTTP/1.1 204 No Content
< Date: Tue, 17 Oct 2023 04:11:00 GMT
< Oc-Fileid: 8d72036d-14a5-490f-889e-414064156402$73bb5450-816b-4cae-90aa-1f96adc95bd4!84e319e4-de1d-4dd8-bbd0-e51d933cdbcd
< Tus-Resumable: 1.0.0
< Upload-Expires: 1697602157
< Upload-Offset: 10
< Vary: Origin
< X-Content-Type-Options: nosniff
< X-Request-Id: xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
<
* Connection #0 to host localhost left intact
```
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}
{{< hint type=warning title="Important Warning" >}}
`Upload-Offset` header indicates the byte position in the target file where the server should start writing the upload content.
It ensures data integrity and order during the upload process.
{{< /hint >}}

> 

Reviewer 2: maybe mention also that the upload will be finished when all bytes that were mentioned while creating the temporary URL are uploaded ( Header: `Upload-Length: 10"`)

# Creation with Upload

> {{< tabs "create-upload" >}}

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
{{< tabs "creation-with-upload" >}}
```

< Content-Length: 0
< Content-Security-Policy: default-src 'none';
< Content-Type: text/plain
< Date: Mon, 16 Oct 2023 04:18:25 GMT
< Etag: "372c96743f68bc40e789124d30567371"
< Last-Modified: Mon, 16 Oct 2023 04:18:25 +0000
< Location: https://ocis.test/data/eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJyZXZhIiwiZXhwIjoxNjk3NTE2MzA1LCJpYXQiOjE2OTc0Mjk5MDUsInRhcmdldCI6Imh0dHA6Ly9sb2NhbGhvc3Q6OTE1OC9kYXRhL3R1cy82NjlhODBlZi1hN2VjLTQwYTAtOGNmOS05MTgwNTVhYzlkZjAifQ.yq-ofJYnJ9FLML7Z_jki1FJQ7Ulbt9O_cmLe6V411A4
< Oc-Etag: "372c96743f68bc40e789124d30567371"
< Oc-Fileid: 44d3e1e0-6c01-4b94-9145-9d0068239fcd$446bdad4-4b27-41f1-afce-0881f202a214!d7c292a6-c395-4e92-bf07-2c1663aec8dd
< Oc-Perm: RDNVWZP
< Tus-Extension: creation,creation-with-upload,checksum,expiration
< Tus-Resumable: 1.0.0
< Upload-Expires: 1697516305
< Upload-Offset: 14
< Vary: Origin
< X-Content-Type-Options: nosniff
< X-Download-Options: noopen
< X-Frame-Options: SAMEORIGIN
* TLSv1.2 (IN), TLS header, Supplemental data (23):
{ [5 bytes data]
< X-Permitted-Cross-Domain-Policies: none
< X-Request-Id: xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
< X-Robots-Tag: none
< X-Xss-Protection: 1; mode=block
<
* Connection #0 to host localhost left intact

> -:1: parser error : Document is empty

Reviewer 2: is this some left over?

---

> title: "tus upload"

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
title: "tus Upload"
```

date: 2023-10-10T00:00:00+00:00
weight: 21
geekdocRepo: https://github.com/owncloud/ocis
geekdocEditPath: edit/master/docs/apis/http
geekdocFilePath: tus_upload.md
geekdocCollapseSection: true
---

> Infinite Scale supports tus resumable-upload protocol.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Infinite Scale supports the tus resumable-upload protocol.
```

< Content-Length: 0
< Content-Security-Policy: default-src 'none';
< Date: Mon, 16 Oct 2023 08:49:39 GMT
< Location: https://ocis.test/data/eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJyZXZhIiwiZXhwIjoxNjk3NTMyNTc5LCJpYXQiOjE2OTc0NDYxNzksInRhcmdldCI6Imh0dHA6Ly9sb2NhbGhvc3Q6OTE1OC9kYXRhL3R1cy8zYTU3ZWZlMS04MzE0LTQ4MGEtOWY5Ny04N2Q1YzBjYTJhMTgifQ.FbrlY7mdOfsbFgMrP8OtcHlCEq72a2ZVnPD2iBo9MfM
< Tus-Extension: creation,creation-with-upload,checksum,expiration
< Tus-Resumable: 1.0.0
< Vary: Origin
< X-Content-Type-Options: nosniff
< X-Download-Options: noopen
< X-Frame-Options: SAMEORIGIN
< X-Permitted-Cross-Domain-Policies: none
< X-Request-Id: xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
< X-Robots-Tag: none
< X-Xss-Protection: 1; mode=block
<
* Connection #0 to host localhost left intact
```
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

The server will return a temporary upload URL in the location header of the response:
```
< Location: https://ocis.test/data/eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJyZXZhIiwiZXhwIjoxNjk3NTMyNTc5LCJpYXQiOjE2OTc0NDYxNzksInRhcmdldCI6Imh0dHA6Ly9sb2NhbGhvc3Q6OTE1OC9kYXRhL3R1cy8zYTU3ZWZlMS04MzE0LTQ4MGEtOWY5Ny04N2Q1YzBjYTJhMTgifQ.FbrlY7mdOfsbFgMrP8OtcHlCEq72a2ZVnPD2iBo9MfM
```

> ### Upload the First Chunk

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
### Upload the First Chunk

```

Once a temporary upload URL has been created, a client can send a PATCH request to upload a file. The file content should be sent in the body of the request:
{{< tabs "upload-the-first-chunk" >}}
{{< tab "Request" >}}
```shell
curl -ks -XPATCH https://temporary-upload-url \
-H "Authorization: Bearer eyJhbGciOiJQUzI..." \
-H "Tus-Resumable: 1.0.0" \
-H "Upload-Offset: 0" \
-H "Content-Type: application/offset+octet-stream" -d "01234"
```
{{< /tab >}}

{{< tab "Response - 204 No Content" >}}
```
< HTTP/1.1 204 No Content
< Date: Tue, 17 Oct 2023 04:10:52 GMT
< Oc-Fileid: 8d72036d-14a5-490f-889e-414064156402$73bb5450-816b-4cae-90aa-1f96adc95bd4!84e319e4-de1d-4dd8-bbd0-e51d933cdbcd
< Tus-Resumable: 1.0.0
< Upload-Expires: 1697602157
< Upload-Offset: 5
< Vary: Origin
< X-Content-Type-Options: nosniff
< X-Request-Id: xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
<
* Connection #0 to host localhost left intact
```
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

> ### Upload Further Chunks

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
### Upload Further Chunks

```

Upload process will not be marked as complete until the total uploaded content size matches the `Upload-Length` specified during the creation of the temporary URL.

{{< tabs "upload-the-second-chunk" >}}
{{< tab "Request" >}}
```shell
curl -ks -XPATCH https://temporary-upload-url \
-H "Authorization: Bearer eyJhbGciOiJQUzI..." \
-H "Tus-Resumable: 1.0.0" \
-H "Upload-Offset: 5" \
-H "Content-Type: application/offset+octet-stream" -d "56789"
```
{{< /tab >}}

{{< tab "Response - 204 No Content" >}}
```
< HTTP/1.1 204 No Content
< Date: Tue, 17 Oct 2023 04:11:00 GMT
< Oc-Fileid: 8d72036d-14a5-490f-889e-414064156402$73bb5450-816b-4cae-90aa-1f96adc95bd4!84e319e4-de1d-4dd8-bbd0-e51d933cdbcd
< Tus-Resumable: 1.0.0
< Upload-Expires: 1697602157
< Upload-Offset: 10
< Vary: Origin
< X-Content-Type-Options: nosniff
< X-Request-Id: xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
<
* Connection #0 to host localhost left intact
```
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}
{{< hint type=warning title="Important Warning" >}}
`Upload-Offset` header indicates the byte position in the target file where the server should start writing the upload content.
It ensures data integrity and order during the upload process.
{{< /hint >}}

> ## Creation with Upload

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
## Creation with Upload

```

{{< tabs "creation-with-upload" >}}
{{< tab "Request" >}}
```shell

> curl -ks -XPOST https://ocis.test/webdav/ \

Reviewer 2: let's use a spaces path here too

-H "Authorization: Bearer eyJhbGciOiJQUzI..." \
-H "Tus-Resumable: 1.0.0" \
-H "Upload-Length: 14" \
-H "Content-Type: application/offset+octet-stream" \
-H "Upload-Metadata: filename dGVzdC50eHQ=" \
-H "Tus-Extension: creation-with-upload" \
-d "upload content"
```
{{< /tab >}}

{{< tab "Response - 201 Created" >}}

> ```xmllint --format

Reviewer 2: what is the `xmllint --format` for? Is that a valid format?
